README.md, before:

# gh-magic-matrix

A collection of GitHub Actions for creating various animations and visualizations from contribution matrices.

## 🚀 Quick Start

```yaml
# Breathing animation - aggregates all history, cells breathe
- uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: dist/breathing-contrib/dark.svg

# Blinking animation - shows years sequentially with fade transitions
- uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: dist/blinking-contrib/dark.svg
```

## Actions

### 🌊 Breathing Contribution Grid

Generate a breathing light effect animation from your GitHub contribution grid. Each cell breathes with intensity based on contribution count.

<picture>
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/dark.svg"
  />
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg"
  />
  <img
    alt="breathing contribution grid animation"
    src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/dark.svg"
  />
</picture>

#### More Examples

- [Light theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg)
- [Dark theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/dark.svg)

### ✨ Blinking Contribution Timeline

Generate an animated SVG that displays your GitHub contributions **year by year** with smooth fade transitions, creating a **starry sky blinking effect**. Like watching a movie of your GitHub journey through time!

<picture>
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg"
  />
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/blinking-contrib/light.svg"
  />
  <img
    alt="blinking contribution timeline animation"
    src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg"
  />
</picture>

#### Usage

**Smooth transitions (default):**
```yaml
- name: Generate blinking contribution timeline
  uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: dist/blinking-contrib/smooth.svg
    frame_duration: "3"             # Each year visible for 3 seconds
    transition_duration: "0.8"      # 0.8s fade transitions
    ending_text: "Thanks"           # Optional: pixel art text at end (default: username)
    font_size: "3x5"                # Compact font for longer text (or "5x7" for standard)
```

**Fast blinking effect:**
```yaml
- name: Generate fast blinking timeline
  uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: dist/blinking-contrib/fast.svg
    frame_duration: "0.5"           # Fast! Each year shows 0.5s
    transition_duration: "0"        # Instant on/off (no fade)
    text_frame_duration: "3"        # Text shows longer (3s)
    ending_text: "Hello World"
    font_size: "3x5"                # Compact font fits more text
```

See [blinking-contrib documentation](./packages/blinking-contrib/README.md) for full options.

> 💡 **Live examples** are automatically generated daily and available in the [`output` branch](../../tree/output)

## Usage

### Calling Actions from This Repo

This repository contains **two GitHub Actions** that can be used independently:

1. **Breathing Contribution Grid** (default action):
   ```yaml
   uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix@main
   ```

2. **Blinking Contribution Timeline** (subdirectory action):
   ```yaml
   uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
   ```

### Complete Workflow Example

Create a workflow file (e.g., `.github/workflows/contrib-animations.yml`):

```yaml
name: Generate Contribution Animations

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: "0 0 * * *"  # Daily at midnight
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  generate:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      # Generate breathing animation (default action)
      - name: Generate breathing contribution animation
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/breathing-contrib/light.svg
          period: "6"

      # Generate blinking animation (subdirectory action)
      - name: Generate blinking contribution timeline
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/blinking-contrib/dark.svg
          frame_duration: "3"
          transition_duration: "0.8"

      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
        uses: crazy-max/ghaction-github-pages@v4
        with:
          target_branch: output
          build_dir: dist
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

### Display in Your README

Add the generated SVGs to your profile README:

```markdown
<!-- Breathing animation with theme support -->
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/breathing-contrib/dark.svg" />
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg" />
  <img alt="Breathing Contribution Grid" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg" />
</picture>

<!-- Blinking animation with theme support -->
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg" />
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/blinking-contrib/light.svg" />
  <img alt="Blinking Contribution Timeline" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg" />
</picture>
```

Or for simple display without theme switching:

```markdown
<!-- Breathing animation -->
![Breathing Contribution Grid](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg)

<!-- Blinking animation -->
![Blinking Contribution Timeline](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg)
```

## Configuration Options

### Breathing Contribution Grid (`diverger/gh-magic-matrix@main`)

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `github_user_name` | GitHub username | (required) |
| `github_token` | GitHub token for API access | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `output_path` | Output SVG file path | `breathing-contrib.svg` |
| `cell_size` | Cell size in pixels | `12` |
| `cell_gap` | Gap between cells in pixels | `2` |
| `cell_radius` | Border radius in pixels | `2` |
| `period` | Breathing cycle duration (seconds) | `6` |
| `color_levels` | 5 colors: empty,low,med-low,med-high,high | GitHub default colors |

### Blinking Contribution Timeline (`diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main`)

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `github_user_name` | GitHub username | (required) |
| `github_token` | GitHub token for API access | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `output_path` | Output SVG file path | `blinking-contrib.svg` |
| `cell_size` | Cell size in pixels | `12` |
| `cell_gap` | Gap between cells in pixels | `2` |
| `cell_radius` | Border radius in pixels | `2` |
| `frame_duration` | How long each year stays visible (seconds) | `3` |
| `transition_duration` | Fade in/out duration (seconds). Use `0` for instant blink! | `0.8` |
| `text_frame_duration` | Duration for ending text frame (seconds) | `2 × frame_duration` |
| `ending_text` | Pixel art text at end (A-Z, a-z, 0-9, space, -!?.:) | username |
| `font_size` | Font for ending text: `3x5` (compact) or `5x7` (standard) | `5x7` |
| `color_levels` | 5 colors: empty,low,med-low,med-high,high | GitHub dark theme colors |

### Animation Effects

Control the blinking effect using existing parameters:

**Smooth transitions (fade in/out):**
- `frame_duration`: `2-5` seconds (slower)
- `transition_duration`: `0.5-1` second (visible fade)

**Fast blinking (instant on/off):**
- `frame_duration`: `0.3-0.8` seconds (faster)
- `transition_duration`: `0` or `0.01` (instant/minimal fade)
- `text_frame_duration`: `3-5` seconds (text lingers longer)

Example:
```yaml
# Fast blink years, slow text
frame_duration: "0.5"           # Years flash quickly
transition_duration: "0"        # No fade = instant blink
text_frame_duration: "4"        # Text stays 4 seconds
```

### Font Size Options

The `font_size` parameter controls how text is rendered in the ending frame:

- **`5x7` (Standard)**: Better readability, suitable for short text (4-6 characters like usernames)
  ```yaml
  ending_text: "John"
  font_size: "5x7"
  ```

- **`3x5` (Compact)**: Fits more characters, ideal for longer messages (8-10 characters)
  ```yaml
  ending_text: "Thanks 2024"
  font_size: "3x5"
  ```

Both fonts support **uppercase, lowercase, numbers, and punctuation** (A-Z, a-z, 0-9, space, -!?.:).
Based on the popular **Tom Thumb** font for the compact option.

### Color Customization

Customize colors by providing 5 comma-separated hex colors:

```yaml
color_levels: "#f0f0f0,#ffb3ba,#ffdfba,#ffffba,#baffc9"
```

The colors represent:
1. Empty (no contributions)
2. Level 1 (low contributions)
3. Level 2 (medium-low)
4. Level 3 (medium-high)
5. Level 4 (high contributions)

Commit message:

feat(action): switch default font to 3x5 and support lowercase letters
- Change default `font_size` from `5x7` to `3x5` for better character support
- Add full lowercase (a-z) support in `3x5` font
- Update `5x7` font to uppercase-only due to ascender/descender constraints
- Automatically convert text to uppercase when using `5x7` font
- Update documentation and examples to reflect font behavior
- Remove outdated lowercase definitions from `5x7` font set
- Adjust related workflow configurations and input descriptions

Signed-off-by: diverger <diverger@live.cn>

README.md, after:

# gh-magic-matrix

A collection of GitHub Actions for creating various animations and visualizations from contribution matrices.

## 🚀 Quick Start

```yaml
# Breathing animation - aggregates all history, cells breathe
- uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: dist/breathing-contrib/dark.svg

# Blinking animation - shows years sequentially with fade transitions
- uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: dist/blinking-contrib/dark.svg
```

## Actions

### 🌊 Breathing Contribution Grid

Generate a breathing light effect animation from your GitHub contribution grid. Each cell breathes with intensity based on contribution count.

<picture>
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/dark.svg"
  />
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg"
  />
  <img
    alt="breathing contribution grid animation"
    src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/dark.svg"
  />
</picture>

#### More Examples

- [Light theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg)
- [Dark theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/breathing-contrib/dark.svg)

### ✨ Blinking Contribution Timeline

Generate an animated SVG that displays your GitHub contributions **year by year** with smooth fade transitions, creating a **starry sky blinking effect**. Like watching a movie of your GitHub journey through time!

<picture>
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg"
  />
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/blinking-contrib/light.svg"
  />
  <img
    alt="blinking contribution timeline animation"
    src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg"
  />
</picture>

#### Usage

**Smooth transitions (default):**
```yaml
- name: Generate blinking contribution timeline
  uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: dist/blinking-contrib/smooth.svg
    frame_duration: "3"             # Each year visible for 3 seconds
    transition_duration: "0.8"      # 0.8s fade transitions
    ending_text: "Thanks"           # Optional: pixel art text at end (default: username)
    font_size: "3x5"                # Compact font for longer text (or "5x7" for standard)
```

**Fast blinking effect:**
```yaml
- name: Generate fast blinking timeline
  uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: dist/blinking-contrib/fast.svg
    frame_duration: "0.5"           # Fast! Each year shows 0.5s
    transition_duration: "0"        # Instant on/off (no fade)
    text_frame_duration: "3"        # Text shows longer (3s)
    ending_text: "Hello World"
    font_size: "3x5"                # Compact font fits more text
```

See [blinking-contrib documentation](./packages/blinking-contrib/README.md) for full options.

> 💡 **Live examples** are automatically generated daily and available in the [`output` branch](../../tree/output)

## Usage

### Calling Actions from This Repo

This repository contains **two GitHub Actions** that can be used independently:

1. **Breathing Contribution Grid** (default action):
   ```yaml
   uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix@main
   ```

2. **Blinking Contribution Timeline** (subdirectory action):
   ```yaml
   uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
   ```

### Complete Workflow Example

Create a workflow file (e.g., `.github/workflows/contrib-animations.yml`):

```yaml
name: Generate Contribution Animations

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: "0 0 * * *"  # Daily at midnight
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  generate:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      # Generate breathing animation (default action)
      - name: Generate breathing contribution animation
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/breathing-contrib/light.svg
          period: "6"

      # Generate blinking animation (subdirectory action)
      - name: Generate blinking contribution timeline
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/blinking-contrib/dark.svg
          frame_duration: "3"
          transition_duration: "0.8"

      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
        uses: crazy-max/ghaction-github-pages@v4
        with:
          target_branch: output
          build_dir: dist
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

### Display in Your README

Add the generated SVGs to your profile README:

```markdown
<!-- Breathing animation with theme support -->
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/breathing-contrib/dark.svg" />
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg" />
  <img alt="Breathing Contribution Grid" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg" />
</picture>

<!-- Blinking animation with theme support -->
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg" />
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/blinking-contrib/light.svg" />
  <img alt="Blinking Contribution Timeline" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg" />
</picture>
```

Or for simple display without theme switching:

```markdown
<!-- Breathing animation -->
![Breathing Contribution Grid](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/breathing-contrib/light.svg)

<!-- Blinking animation -->
![Blinking Contribution Timeline](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/blinking-contrib/dark.svg)
```

## Configuration Options

### Breathing Contribution Grid (`diverger/gh-magic-matrix@main`)

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `github_user_name` | GitHub username | (required) |
| `github_token` | GitHub token for API access | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `output_path` | Output SVG file path | `breathing-contrib.svg` |
| `cell_size` | Cell size in pixels | `12` |
| `cell_gap` | Gap between cells in pixels | `2` |
| `cell_radius` | Border radius in pixels | `2` |
| `period` | Breathing cycle duration (seconds) | `6` |
| `color_levels` | 5 colors: empty,low,med-low,med-high,high | GitHub default colors |

### Blinking Contribution Timeline (`diverger/gh-magic-matrix/blinking-contrib@main`)

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `github_user_name` | GitHub username | (required) |
| `github_token` | GitHub token for API access | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `output_path` | Output SVG file path | `blinking-contrib.svg` |
| `cell_size` | Cell size in pixels | `12` |
| `cell_gap` | Gap between cells in pixels | `2` |
| `cell_radius` | Border radius in pixels | `2` |
| `frame_duration` | How long each year stays visible (seconds) | `3` |
| `fade_in_duration` | Fade in duration (seconds) | `0.5` |
| `fade_out_duration` | Fade out duration (seconds) | `0.5` |
| `text_frame_duration` | Duration for ending text frame (seconds) | `2 × frame_duration` |
| `ending_text` | Pixel art text at end (see Font Size section for supported characters) | username |
| `font_size` | Font for ending text: `3x5` (a-z supported) or `5x7` (A-Z only) | `3x5` |
| `color_levels` | 5 colors: empty,low,med-low,med-high,high | GitHub dark theme colors |

### Animation Effects

Control the blinking effect using existing parameters:

**Smooth transitions (fade in/out):**
- `frame_duration`: `2-5` seconds (slower)
- `transition_duration`: `0.5-1` second (visible fade)

**Fast blinking (instant on/off):**
- `frame_duration`: `0.3-0.8` seconds (faster)
- `transition_duration`: `0` or `0.01` (instant/minimal fade)
- `text_frame_duration`: `3-5` seconds (text lingers longer)

Example:
```yaml
# Fast blink years, slow text
frame_duration: "0.5"           # Years flash quickly
transition_duration: "0"        # No fade = instant blink
text_frame_duration: "4"        # Text stays 4 seconds
```

### Font Size Options

The `font_size` parameter controls how text is rendered in the ending frame:

- **`5x7` (Standard)**: Better readability, suitable for short text (4-6 characters like usernames)
  - **Uppercase only** (A-Z, 0-9, space, -!?.:) - lowercase automatically converted to uppercase
  ```yaml
  ending_text: "JOHN"
  font_size: "5x7"
  ```

- **`3x5` (Compact)**: Fits more characters, ideal for longer messages (8-10 characters)
  - **Full character support** (A-Z, a-z, 0-9, space, -!?.:)
  ```yaml
  ending_text: "Thanks 2024"
  font_size: "3x5"
  ```

**Note**: The 5x7 font doesn't support lowercase letters due to height constraints with ascenders (b, d, f, h, k, l) and descenders (g, j, p, q, y). Use the 3x5 font for mixed-case text.
Based on the popular **Tom Thumb** font for the compact option.

### Color Customization

Customize colors by providing 5 comma-separated hex colors:

```yaml
color_levels: "#f0f0f0,#ffb3ba,#ffdfba,#ffffba,#baffc9"
```

The colors represent:
1. Empty (no contributions)
2. Level 1 (low contributions)
3. Level 2 (medium-low)
4. Level 3 (medium-high)
5. Level 4 (high contributions)
