snake/README.md, before:

# Snake Contribution Grid

Generate an animated SVG showing a snake eating GitHub contributions inspired by the popular snk project.

<picture>
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/dark.svg"
  />
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/light.svg"
  />
  <img
    alt="snake contribution grid animation"
    src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/dark.svg"
  />
</picture>

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```yaml
name: Generate Snake Animation
on:
  schedule:
    - cron: "0 0 * * *"  # Daily at midnight
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  generate:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Generate snake contribution animation
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/snake/dark.svg
          snake_length: "6"                   # Length of the snake
          animation_duration: "20"            # Total animation time in seconds
```

### Advanced Configuration

```yaml
- name: Generate custom snake animation
  uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    output_path: snake.svg
    svg_width: "900"
    svg_height: "250"
    cell_size: "15"
    cell_gap: "3"
    cell_radius: "3"
    snake_length: "8"
    animation_duration: "30"
    colors: "#161b22,#0e4429,#006d32,#26a641,#39d353"  # GitHub dark theme
```

## Configuration Options

### Basic Options

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `github_user_name` | GitHub username | (required) |
| `github_token` | GitHub token for API access | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `output_path` | Output SVG file path | `snake.svg` |
| `svg_width` | SVG canvas width in pixels | `800` |
| `svg_height` | SVG canvas height in pixels | `200` |
| `cell_size` | Size of each contribution cell in pixels | `12` |
| `cell_gap` | Gap between cells in pixels | `2` |
| `cell_radius` | Border radius of cells in pixels | `2` |
| `snake_length` | Length of the snake in segments | `6` |
| `animation_duration` | Total animation duration in seconds | `20` |
| `colors` | Comma-separated color levels (empty, L1, L2, L3, L4) | GitHub default colors |

### Contribution Counter Options

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `show_contribution_counter` | Enable contribution counter and progress bar | `false` |
| `counter_displays` | JSON array of counter display configurations (see below) | - |

## Contribution Counter Feature

Display real-time contribution statistics with animated progress bars and customizable counters that update as the snake eats cells.

### Quick Start

**Simple counter following the progress bar:**

```yaml
- name: Generate snake with counter
  uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: snake.svg
    show_contribution_counter: true
    counter_displays: |
      [
        {
          "position": "follow",
          "prefix": "🎯 ",
          "suffix": " contributions",
          "color": "#7ee787"
        }
      ]
```

### Counter Display Configuration

The `counter_displays` parameter accepts a JSON array. Each display can have:

#### Position Options

- **`top-left`**: Fixed position at the left edge above the grid
- **`top-right`**: Right-aligned position above the grid (auto-clamped to canvas width)
- **`follow`**: Follows the progress bar head as it moves

#### Text Display Options

**Static Text:**
```json
{
  "position": "top-left",
  "text": "GitHub Contributions",
  "color": "#58a6ff",
  "fontSize": 16,
  "fontWeight": "bold"
}
```

**Dynamic Counter:**
```json
{
  "position": "follow",
  "prefix": "🎯 ",
  "suffix": " commits",
  "showCount": true,
  "showPercentage": true,
  "color": "#ffa657"
}
```

#### Image Display Options

**Static Image:**
```json
{
  "position": "follow",
  "images": [{
    "url": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANS...",
    "width": 32,
    "height": 32
  }]
}
```

**Sprite Sheet Animation (synced with progress):**
```json
{
  "position": "follow",
  "images": [{
    "url": "https://example.com/sprite.png",
    "width": 128,
    "height": 32,
    "sprite": {
      "frames": 4,
      "layout": "horizontal",
      "mode": "sync"
    }
  }]
}
```

**Multiple Image Files (GitHub workflow friendly):**
```json
{
  "position": "follow",
  "images": [{
    "urlFolder": "images/character",
    "framePattern": "frame-{n}.png",
    "width": 32,
    "height": 32,
    "sprite": {
      "frames": 8,
      "mode": "loop",
      "fps": 10
    }
  }]
}
```

#### Full Configuration Reference

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
|-------|------|-------------|---------|
| `position` | string | `'top-left'` \| `'top-right'` \| `'follow'` | required |
| `text` | string | Static text (ignores count/percentage if set) | - |
| `prefix` | string | Text before count/percentage | - |
| `suffix` | string | Text after count/percentage | - |
| `showCount` | boolean | Display contribution count | `true` |
| `showPercentage` | boolean | Display percentage | `true` |
| `fontSize` | number | Font size in pixels | `14` |
| `fontFamily` | string | Font family | `'Arial, sans-serif'` |
| `fontWeight` | string \| number | `'normal'`, `'bold'`, or 100-900 | `'normal'` |
| `fontStyle` | string | `'normal'` or `'italic'` | `'normal'` |
| `color` | string | Text color (CSS color) | `'#666'` |
| `images` | array | Array of image configurations | - |

#### Image Configuration Fields

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
|-------|------|-------------|---------|
| `url` | string | Image URL (data URI or external) | - |
| `urlFolder` | string | Folder path for numbered frame files | - |
| `framePattern` | string | Filename pattern (e.g., `'frame-{n}.png'`) | `'frame-{n}.png'` |
| `width` | number | Image width in pixels | required |
| `height` | number | Image height in pixels | required |
| `offsetY` | number | Vertical offset in pixels | `0` |
| `anchor` | string | Predefined anchor point | `'bottom-center'` |
| `anchorX` | number | Custom horizontal anchor (0-1) | - |
| `anchorY` | number | Custom vertical anchor (0-1) | - |
| `spacing` | number | Horizontal spacing after image in pixels | `0` |
| `sprite` | object | Sprite animation configuration | - |

#### Sprite Configuration Fields

| Field | Type | Description | Required |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|
| `frames` | number | Number of animation frames | ✅ |
| `frameWidth` | number | Frame width (sprite sheet only) | auto |
| `frameHeight` | number | Frame height (sprite sheet only) | auto |
| `layout` | string | `'horizontal'` or `'vertical'` | `'horizontal'` |
| `mode` | string | `'sync'` (with progress) or `'loop'` (independent) | `'sync'` |
| `fps` | number | Frames per second (loop mode) | - |
| `duration` | number | Animation duration in ms (loop mode) | - |

### Complete Examples

**Example 1: Multiple Text Displays**

```yaml
show_contribution_counter: true
counter_displays: |
  [
    {
      "position": "top-left",
      "text": "GitHub Contributions",
      "color": "#1f883d",
      "fontSize": 14,
      "fontWeight": "bold"
    },
    {
      "position": "top-right",
      "prefix": "Total: ",
      "suffix": " commits",
      "showCount": true,
      "showPercentage": true,
      "color": "#bf3989",
      "fontStyle": "italic"
    },
    {
      "position": "follow",
      "prefix": "🎯 ",
      "suffix": " contributions",
      "color": "#d29922"
    }
  ]
```

**Example 2: Image with Counter**

```yaml
show_contribution_counter: true
counter_displays: |
  [
    {
      "position": "follow",
      "images": [{
        "url": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KG...",
        "width": 24,
        "height": 24,
        "spacing": 8
      }],
      "prefix": "",
      "suffix": " commits collected!",
      "color": "#7ee787"
    }
  ]
```

**Example 3: Sprite Animation**

```yaml
show_contribution_counter: true
counter_displays: |
  [
    {
      "position": "follow",
      "images": [{
        "url": "https://example.com/character-sprite.png",
        "width": 128,
        "height": 32,
        "anchor": "bottom-center",
        "sprite": {
          "frames": 4,
          "layout": "horizontal",
          "mode": "sync"
        }
      }]
    }
  ]
```

## Outputs

| Output | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `svg_path` | Path to the generated SVG file |
| `moves_count` | Total number of moves in the snake path |
| `cells_eaten` | Number of contribution cells consumed |

## Algorithm Details

This action implements a sophisticated pathfinding system inspired by the snk project:

### 1. Two-Phase Clearing Strategy

- **Phase 1: Residual Color Clearing** - Removes remaining cells from previous color levels using priority-based tunnel selection
- **Phase 2: Clean Color Clearing** - Systematically consumes all cells of the current color level using closest-first strategy

### 2. Tunnel-Based Pathfinding

- **Tunnel Validation**: Ensures both entry and exit paths exist before committing to a route
- **Priority Scoring**: Balances tunnel length vs color distribution for optimal paths
- **Round-Trip Planning**: Guarantees the snake can always return to safe areas

### 3. Advanced Data Structures

- **Snake Representation**: Uses Uint8Array for memory-efficient coordinate storage
- **Grid System**: Branded TypeScript types for type-safe color management
- **Pathfinding Nodes**: A* algorithm with heuristic-based cost calculation

## Color Customization

### Pre-defined Color Themes

**GitHub Dark Theme (default):**
```yaml
colors: "#161b22,#0e4429,#006d32,#26a641,#39d353"
```

**GitHub Light Theme:**
```yaml
colors: "#ebedf0,#9be9a8,#40c463,#30a14e,#216e39"
```

**Custom Colors:**
```yaml
colors: "#f0f0f0,#ffb3ba,#ffdfba,#ffffba,#baffc9"
```

The colors represent:
1. Empty (no contributions)
2. Level 1 (low contributions)
3. Level 2 (medium-low)
4. Level 3 (medium-high)
5. Level 4 (high contributions)

## Display in Your README

Add the generated SVG to your profile README:

```markdown
<!-- Snake animation with theme support -->
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/snake/dark.svg" />
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/snake/light.svg" />
  <img alt="Snake Contribution Grid" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/snake/dark.svg" />
</picture>
```

Or for simple display without theme switching:

```markdown
![Snake Contribution Grid](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/snake/dark.svg)
```

## Complete Workflow Example

```yaml
name: Generate Snake Animations

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: "0 0 * * *"  # Daily at midnight
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  generate:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      # Generate snake with light theme
      - name: Generate snake (light theme)
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/snake/light.svg
          snake_length: "6"
          animation_duration: "20"
          colors: "#ebedf0,#9be9a8,#40c463,#30a14e,#216e39"

      # Generate snake with dark theme
      - name: Generate snake (dark theme)
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/snake/dark.svg
          snake_length: "6"
          animation_duration: "20"
          colors: "#161b22,#0e4429,#006d32,#26a641,#39d353"

      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
        uses: crazy-max/ghaction-github-pages@v4
        with:
          target_branch: output
          build_dir: dist
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

## Examples

- [Light theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/light.svg)
- [Dark theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/dark.svg)

Commit message:

feat(snake): add support for bottom-left and bottom-right counter positions
Added new counter display positions 'bottom-left' and 'bottom-right' to allow
text rendering below the progress bar. Updated layout calculations in SVG
builder to account for text spacing both above and below the progress bar.
Extended documentation and examples in README and action.yml to reflect the
new positioning options. Also improved CI workflow commands structure.

Signed-off-by: diverger <diverger@live.cn>

snake/README.md, after:

# Snake Contribution Grid

Generate an animated SVG showing a snake eating GitHub contributions inspired by the popular snk project.

<picture>
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/dark.svg"
  />
  <source
    media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/light.svg"
  />
  <img
    alt="snake contribution grid animation"
    src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/dark.svg"
  />
</picture>

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```yaml
name: Generate Snake Animation
on:
  schedule:
    - cron: "0 0 * * *"  # Daily at midnight
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  generate:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Generate snake contribution animation
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/snake/dark.svg
          snake_length: "6"                   # Length of the snake
          animation_duration: "20"            # Total animation time in seconds
```

### Advanced Configuration

```yaml
- name: Generate custom snake animation
  uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    output_path: snake.svg
    svg_width: "900"
    svg_height: "250"
    cell_size: "15"
    cell_gap: "3"
    cell_radius: "3"
    snake_length: "8"
    animation_duration: "30"
    colors: "#161b22,#0e4429,#006d32,#26a641,#39d353"  # GitHub dark theme
```

## Configuration Options

### Basic Options

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `github_user_name` | GitHub username | (required) |
| `github_token` | GitHub token for API access | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `output_path` | Output SVG file path | `snake.svg` |
| `svg_width` | SVG canvas width in pixels | `800` |
| `svg_height` | SVG canvas height in pixels | `200` |
| `cell_size` | Size of each contribution cell in pixels | `12` |
| `cell_gap` | Gap between cells in pixels | `2` |
| `cell_radius` | Border radius of cells in pixels | `2` |
| `snake_length` | Length of the snake in segments | `6` |
| `animation_duration` | Total animation duration in seconds | `20` |
| `colors` | Comma-separated color levels (empty, L1, L2, L3, L4) | GitHub default colors |

### Contribution Counter Options

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `show_contribution_counter` | Enable contribution counter and progress bar | `false` |
| `counter_displays` | JSON array of counter display configurations (see below) | - |

## Contribution Counter Feature

Display real-time contribution statistics with animated progress bars and customizable counters that update as the snake eats cells.

### Quick Start

**Simple counter following the progress bar:**

```yaml
- name: Generate snake with counter
  uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
  with:
    github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
    output_path: snake.svg
    show_contribution_counter: true
    counter_displays: |
      [
        {
          "position": "follow",
          "prefix": "🎯 ",
          "suffix": " contributions",
          "color": "#7ee787"
        }
      ]
```

### Counter Display Configuration

The `counter_displays` parameter accepts a JSON array. Each display can have:

#### Position Options

- **`top-left`**: Fixed position at the left edge above the progress bar
- **`top-right`**: Right-aligned position above the progress bar (auto-clamped to canvas width)
- **`bottom-left`**: Fixed position at the left edge below the progress bar
- **`bottom-right`**: Right-aligned position below the progress bar (auto-clamped to canvas width)
- **`follow`**: Follows the progress bar head as it moves (on the same line)

#### Text Display Options

**Static Text:**
```json
{
  "position": "top-left",
  "text": "GitHub Contributions",
  "color": "#58a6ff",
  "fontSize": 16,
  "fontWeight": "bold"
}
```

**Dynamic Counter:**
```json
{
  "position": "follow",
  "prefix": "🎯 ",
  "suffix": " commits",
  "showCount": true,
  "showPercentage": true,
  "color": "#ffa657"
}
```

#### Image Display Options

**Static Image:**
```json
{
  "position": "follow",
  "images": [{
    "url": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANS...",
    "width": 32,
    "height": 32
  }]
}
```

**Sprite Sheet Animation (synced with progress):**
```json
{
  "position": "follow",
  "images": [{
    "url": "https://example.com/sprite.png",
    "width": 128,
    "height": 32,
    "sprite": {
      "frames": 4,
      "layout": "horizontal",
      "mode": "sync"
    }
  }]
}
```

**Multiple Image Files (GitHub workflow friendly):**
```json
{
  "position": "follow",
  "images": [{
    "urlFolder": "images/character",
    "framePattern": "frame-{n}.png",
    "width": 32,
    "height": 32,
    "sprite": {
      "frames": 8,
      "mode": "loop",
      "fps": 10
    }
  }]
}
```

#### Full Configuration Reference

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
|-------|------|-------------|---------|
| `position` | string | `'top-left'` \| `'top-right'` \| `'bottom-left'` \| `'bottom-right'` \| `'follow'` | required |
| `text` | string | Static text (ignores count/percentage if set) | - |
| `prefix` | string | Text before count/percentage | - |
| `suffix` | string | Text after count/percentage | - |
| `showCount` | boolean | Display contribution count | `true` |
| `showPercentage` | boolean | Display percentage | `true` |
| `fontSize` | number | Font size in pixels | `14` |
| `fontFamily` | string | Font family | `'Arial, sans-serif'` |
| `fontWeight` | string \| number | `'normal'`, `'bold'`, or 100-900 | `'normal'` |
| `fontStyle` | string | `'normal'` or `'italic'` | `'normal'` |
| `color` | string | Text color (CSS color) | `'#666'` |
| `images` | array | Array of image configurations | - |

#### Image Configuration Fields

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
|-------|------|-------------|---------|
| `url` | string | Image URL (data URI or external) | - |
| `urlFolder` | string | Folder path for numbered frame files | - |
| `framePattern` | string | Filename pattern (e.g., `'frame-{n}.png'`) | `'frame-{n}.png'` |
| `width` | number | Image width in pixels | required |
| `height` | number | Image height in pixels | required |
| `offsetY` | number | Vertical offset in pixels | `0` |
| `anchor` | string | Predefined anchor point | `'bottom-center'` |
| `anchorX` | number | Custom horizontal anchor (0-1) | - |
| `anchorY` | number | Custom vertical anchor (0-1) | - |
| `spacing` | number | Horizontal spacing after image in pixels | `0` |
| `sprite` | object | Sprite animation configuration | - |

#### Sprite Configuration Fields

| Field | Type | Description | Required |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|
| `frames` | number | Number of animation frames | ✅ |
| `frameWidth` | number | Frame width (sprite sheet only) | auto |
| `frameHeight` | number | Frame height (sprite sheet only) | auto |
| `layout` | string | `'horizontal'` or `'vertical'` | `'horizontal'` |
| `mode` | string | `'sync'` (with progress) or `'loop'` (independent) | `'sync'` |
| `fps` | number | Frames per second (loop mode) | - |
| `duration` | number | Animation duration in ms (loop mode) | - |

### Complete Examples

**Example 1: Multiple Text Displays**

```yaml
show_contribution_counter: true
counter_displays: |
  [
    {
      "position": "top-left",
      "text": "GitHub Contributions",
      "color": "#1f883d",
      "fontSize": 14,
      "fontWeight": "bold"
    },
    {
      "position": "top-right",
      "prefix": "Total: ",
      "suffix": " commits",
      "showCount": true,
      "showPercentage": true,
      "color": "#bf3989",
      "fontStyle": "italic"
    },
    {
      "position": "follow",
      "prefix": "🎯 ",
      "suffix": " contributions",
      "color": "#d29922"
    }
  ]
```

**Example 2: Image with Counter**

```yaml
show_contribution_counter: true
counter_displays: |
  [
    {
      "position": "follow",
      "images": [{
        "url": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KG...",
        "width": 24,
        "height": 24,
        "spacing": 8
      }],
      "prefix": "",
      "suffix": " commits collected!",
      "color": "#7ee787"
    }
  ]
```

**Example 3: Sprite Animation**

```yaml
show_contribution_counter: true
counter_displays: |
  [
    {
      "position": "follow",
      "images": [{
        "url": "https://example.com/character-sprite.png",
        "width": 128,
        "height": 32,
        "anchor": "bottom-center",
        "sprite": {
          "frames": 4,
          "layout": "horizontal",
          "mode": "sync"
        }
      }]
    }
  ]
```

## Outputs

| Output | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `svg_path` | Path to the generated SVG file |
| `moves_count` | Total number of moves in the snake path |
| `cells_eaten` | Number of contribution cells consumed |

## Algorithm Details

This action implements a sophisticated pathfinding system inspired by the snk project:

### 1. Two-Phase Clearing Strategy

- **Phase 1: Residual Color Clearing** - Removes remaining cells from previous color levels using priority-based tunnel selection
- **Phase 2: Clean Color Clearing** - Systematically consumes all cells of the current color level using closest-first strategy

### 2. Tunnel-Based Pathfinding

- **Tunnel Validation**: Ensures both entry and exit paths exist before committing to a route
- **Priority Scoring**: Balances tunnel length vs color distribution for optimal paths
- **Round-Trip Planning**: Guarantees the snake can always return to safe areas

### 3. Advanced Data Structures

- **Snake Representation**: Uses Uint8Array for memory-efficient coordinate storage
- **Grid System**: Branded TypeScript types for type-safe color management
- **Pathfinding Nodes**: A* algorithm with heuristic-based cost calculation

## Color Customization

### Pre-defined Color Themes

**GitHub Dark Theme (default):**
```yaml
colors: "#161b22,#0e4429,#006d32,#26a641,#39d353"
```

**GitHub Light Theme:**
```yaml
colors: "#ebedf0,#9be9a8,#40c463,#30a14e,#216e39"
```

**Custom Colors:**
```yaml
colors: "#f0f0f0,#ffb3ba,#ffdfba,#ffffba,#baffc9"
```

The colors represent:
1. Empty (no contributions)
2. Level 1 (low contributions)
3. Level 2 (medium-low)
4. Level 3 (medium-high)
5. Level 4 (high contributions)

## Display in Your README

Add the generated SVG to your profile README:

```markdown
<!-- Snake animation with theme support -->
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/snake/dark.svg" />
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/snake/light.svg" />
  <img alt="Snake Contribution Grid" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/snake/dark.svg" />
</picture>
```

Or for simple display without theme switching:

```markdown
![Snake Contribution Grid](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/USERNAME/REPO/output/snake/dark.svg)
```

## Complete Workflow Example

```yaml
name: Generate Snake Animations

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: "0 0 * * *"  # Daily at midnight
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  generate:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      # Generate snake with light theme
      - name: Generate snake (light theme)
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/snake/light.svg
          snake_length: "6"
          animation_duration: "20"
          colors: "#ebedf0,#9be9a8,#40c463,#30a14e,#216e39"

      # Generate snake with dark theme
      - name: Generate snake (dark theme)
        uses: diverger/gh-magic-matrix/snake@main
        with:
          github_user_name: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
          output_path: dist/snake/dark.svg
          snake_length: "6"
          animation_duration: "20"
          colors: "#161b22,#0e4429,#006d32,#26a641,#39d353"

      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
        uses: crazy-max/ghaction-github-pages@v4
        with:
          target_branch: output
          build_dir: dist
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

## Examples

- [Light theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/light.svg)
- [Dark theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/diverger/gh-magic-matrix/output/snake/dark.svg)
