scripts/snake/README.md, before:

# Snake Test Scripts

This directory contains test and verification scripts for the Snake contribution graph.

## 🧪 Main Test Suite

### test-all-mode-combinations.ts
**Complete test suite** with 9 test configurations covering all position mode × time mode combinations.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/test-all-mode-combinations.ts
```

**Test Configurations**:
1. `free-sync` - Uniform movement + frame advance per step (uses `index`, no sliding)
2. `free-loop-spritesheet` - Uniform movement + independent loop (sprite sheet, 8 frames)
3. `free-loop-multifile-time` - Uniform movement + time-based loop (may skip frames)
4. `free-loop-multifile-smooth` - Uniform movement + index-based loop (no frame skipping)
5. `free-level` - Uniform movement + L0-L4 level switching
6. `follow-level` - Follow progress bar + L0-L4 level switching
7. `follow-sync` - Follow progress bar + sync frame advance (uses `contributionCellsEaten`)
8. `top-left-sync` - Fixed position + sync frame advance
9. `multi-display-combo` - Multiple counter combination showcase

**Output**: `test-outputs/*.svg` (9 files, total size ~8 MB)

---

## ✅ Verification Scripts

### verify-sync-logic.ts
Verifies the frame advance logic for **free-sync mode**.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/verify-sync-logic.ts
```

**Verification**:
- Checks if frame advances every step (uses `index`)
- Detects sliding phenomenon (X position changes but frame stays same)
- Expected result: 0% sliding rate

---

### verify-follow-sync.ts
Verifies the frame advance logic for **follow-sync mode**.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/verify-follow-sync.ts
```

**Verification**:
- Checks if frame advances only on colored cells (uses `contributionCellsEaten`)
- Verifies frame pauses when progress bar pauses
- Expected result: 0 sliding instances, perfect sync between progress bar and animation

---

## 📊 Analysis Scripts

### compare-loop-modes.ts
Compares the performance of two **loop mode** implementations.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/compare-loop-modes.ts
```

**Comparison**:
- **Time-based** (uses `fps` parameter): Time-based calculation, may skip frames
- **Index-based** (uses `loopSpeed` parameter): Index-based calculation, no frame skipping

**Performance Metrics**:
- Frame distribution uniformity (standard deviation)
- Frame usage frequency statistics
- Recommends index-based (loopSpeed) for smoother animation

---

### check-frame-distribution.ts
Checks the **frame distribution uniformity** of sprite animation.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/check-frame-distribution.ts
```

**Analysis**:
- Counts usage frequency for each frame
- Calculates distribution standard deviation and coefficient of variation
- Detects frame jumping or duplicate usage

---

## 📝 Usage Guide

### Quick Testing
```bash
# Run complete test suite
bun scripts/snake/test-all-mode-combinations.ts

# Verify free-sync mode
bun scripts/snake/verify-sync-logic.ts

# Verify follow-sync mode
bun scripts/snake/verify-follow-sync.ts
```

### Performance Analysis
```bash
# Compare loop mode performance
bun scripts/snake/compare-loop-modes.ts

# Check frame distribution
bun scripts/snake/check-frame-distribution.ts
```

### View Results
Generated SVG files are in the `test-outputs/` directory and can be opened directly in a browser to view the animations.

---

## 🎯 Key Concepts

### Position Modes
- **free**: Uniform movement from left to right (`x = t * width`)
- **follow**: Follow progress bar head
- **top-left/top-right/bottom-left/bottom-right**: Fixed positions

### Time Modes
- **sync**: Synchronized frame advance
  - Free mode: Uses `index` (advance every step)
  - Follow mode: Uses `contributionCellsEaten` (advance only on colored cells)
- **loop**: Independent loop animation
  - Time-based: Uses `fps` parameter
  - Index-based: Uses `loopSpeed` parameter (recommended)
- **level**: Switch between L0-L4 levels based on contribution value

### Sliding Phenomenon
When position moves but frame stays the same, the sprite appears to "slide".

- **Free-sync**: Uses `index` to prevent sliding
- **Follow-sync**: Uses `contributionCellsEaten`, animation pauses when progress bar pauses (correct behavior)

---

## 📈 Test Coverage

| Position Mode | Sync | Loop | Level |
|--------------|------|------|-------|
| Free         | ✅   | ✅   | ✅    |
| Follow       | ✅   | -    | ✅    |
| Top-left     | ✅   | -    | -     |
| Multi        | ✅   | ✅   | -     |

**Total**: 9 test configurations, 100% pass rate 🎉

Commit message:

build(docker): optimize docker build caching and registry login
- Update `cache-from` in build-docker.yml to use both tag and branch for better caching
- Fix registry login in release.yml by using dynamic registry output
- Improve image digest update logic in release workflow with more precise regex patterns

feat(docker): implement multi-stage builds for all Dockerfiles

- Refactor Dockerfile.blinking, Dockerfile.breathing, and Dockerfile.snake
- Introduce builder and runtime stages to reduce final image size
- Improve layer caching by reordering COPY instructions

docs(readme): update blinking-contrib README code block language

- Change markdown code block to html for proper rendering of picture element

refactor(action): remove default github token in action.yml files

- Set default value of github_token input to empty string in blinking-contrib/action.yml
- Set default value of github_token input to empty string in breathing-contrib/action.yml
- Set default value of github_token input to empty string in snake/action.yml

refactor(svg): improve counter state calculations and type safety

- Remove unnecessary non-null assertions in svg-stack-renderer.ts
- Add type guard for OutputConfig in test scripts
- Improve error handling and validation for hideProgressBar option

refactor(grid): simplify color assignment and add margin validation

- Simplify color index assignment in Grid class
- Add range validation for margin parameter in isInsideLarge method

docs(readme): update documentation for counter displays

- Clarify frame requirement for level mode in snake README
- Update test output size note in scripts/snake README

test(script): improve error handling and validation in test scripts

- Add directory change validation in validate-breathing.sh
- Improve output validation in test-all-mode-combinations.ts
- Add file write error handling in test scripts

Signed-off-by: diverger <diverger@live.cn>

scripts/snake/README.md, after:

# Snake Test Scripts

This directory contains test and verification scripts for the Snake contribution graph.

## 🧪 Main Test Suite

### test-all-mode-combinations.ts
**Complete test suite** with 9 test configurations covering all position mode × time mode combinations.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/test-all-mode-combinations.ts
```

**Test Configurations**:
1. `free-sync` - Uniform movement + frame advance per step (uses `index`, no sliding)
2. `free-loop-spritesheet` - Uniform movement + independent loop (sprite sheet, 8 frames)
3. `free-loop-multifile-time` - Uniform movement + time-based loop (may skip frames)
4. `free-loop-multifile-smooth` - Uniform movement + index-based loop (no frame skipping)
5. `free-level` - Uniform movement + L0-L4 level switching
6. `follow-level` - Follow progress bar + L0-L4 level switching
7. `follow-sync` - Follow progress bar + sync frame advance (uses `contributionCellsEaten`)
8. `top-left-sync` - Fixed position + sync frame advance
9. `multi-display-combo` - Multiple counter combination showcase

**Output**: `test-outputs/*.svg` (9 files, ~8 MB estimated; measured on 2025-11-01)

> ⚠️ **Note**: Size is an estimate and may vary. Run tests to verify current disk usage.

---

## ✅ Verification Scripts

### verify-sync-logic.ts
Verifies the frame advance logic for **free-sync mode**.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/verify-sync-logic.ts
```

**Verification**:
- Checks if frame advances every step (uses `index`)
- Detects sliding phenomenon (X position changes but frame stays same)
- Expected result: 0% sliding rate

---

### verify-follow-sync.ts
Verifies the frame advance logic for **follow-sync mode**.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/verify-follow-sync.ts
```

**Verification**:
- Checks if frame advances only on colored cells (uses `contributionCellsEaten`)
- Verifies frame pauses when progress bar pauses
- Expected result: 0 sliding instances, perfect sync between progress bar and animation

---

## 📊 Analysis Scripts

### compare-loop-modes.ts
Compares the performance of two **loop mode** implementations.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/compare-loop-modes.ts
```

**Comparison**:
- **Time-based** (uses `fps` parameter): Time-based calculation, may skip frames
- **Index-based** (uses `loopSpeed` parameter): Index-based calculation, no frame skipping

**Performance Metrics**:
- Frame distribution uniformity (standard deviation)
- Frame usage frequency statistics
- Recommends index-based (loopSpeed) for smoother animation

---

### check-frame-distribution.ts
Checks the **frame distribution uniformity** of sprite animation.

```bash
bun scripts/snake/check-frame-distribution.ts
```

**Analysis**:
- Counts usage frequency for each frame
- Calculates distribution standard deviation and coefficient of variation
- Detects frame jumping or duplicate usage

---

## 📝 Usage Guide

### Quick Testing
```bash
# Run complete test suite
bun scripts/snake/test-all-mode-combinations.ts

# Verify free-sync mode
bun scripts/snake/verify-sync-logic.ts

# Verify follow-sync mode
bun scripts/snake/verify-follow-sync.ts
```

### Performance Analysis
```bash
# Compare loop mode performance
bun scripts/snake/compare-loop-modes.ts

# Check frame distribution
bun scripts/snake/check-frame-distribution.ts
```

### View Results
Generated SVG files are in the `test-outputs/` directory and can be opened directly in a browser to view the animations.

---

## 🎯 Key Concepts

### Position Modes
- **free**: Uniform movement from left to right (`x = t * width`)
- **follow**: Follow progress bar head
- **top-left/top-right/bottom-left/bottom-right**: Fixed positions

### Time Modes
- **sync**: Synchronized frame advance
  - Free mode: Uses `index` (advance every step)
  - Follow mode: Uses `contributionCellsEaten` (advance only on colored cells)
- **loop**: Independent loop animation
  - Time-based: Uses `fps` parameter
  - Index-based: Uses `loopSpeed` parameter (recommended)
- **level**: Switch between L0-L4 levels based on contribution value

### Sliding Phenomenon
When position moves but frame stays the same, the sprite appears to "slide".

- **Free-sync**: Uses `index` to prevent sliding
- **Follow-sync**: Uses `contributionCellsEaten`, animation pauses when progress bar pauses (correct behavior)

---
